Refactor Schema and Schema Data Related Documentation (#554)
hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework: website/docs/plugin/framework/handling-data/terraform-concepts.mdx

---
page_title: 'Plugin Development - Framework: Handling Data - Terraform Concepts'
description: >-
  Configuration, Schemas, Attributes and Blocks.
---

> # Configuration, Schemas, Attributes and Blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Terraform Concepts
```

Schemas specify the fields that a provider, resource or data source configuration can have.

The fields defined within the schema are either attributes or blocks.

Attributes and blocks within Terraform configuration have different syntax, either using, or omitting an equals sign in their definition, respectively.

Providers, resources and data sources have their own type-specific schema, which use type-specific attributes and blocks.

> The following examples use a resource but the same schema attribute and block types are also defined with the schema for providers and data sources. The examples focus on type-related information, the `Optional` field is included just to provide working examples but refer to Schema (add link) for information about the other fields that can be defined within attributes and blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples use a resource but the same schema attribute and block types are also defined with the schema for providers and data sources. The examples focus on type-related information, the `Optional` field is included just to provide working examples but refer to [Schema](/plugin/framework/handling-data/schemas) for information about the other fields that can be defined within attributes and blocks.
```

> ## Attributes

Reviewer: Similarly in a followup for these, it might make sense to summarize that attributes set values and provide a quick table of descriptions -- leaving the nitty gritty details for the attributes page. 👍

                                "number_attribute":  types.NumberType,
                                "set_attribute":     types.ListType{ElemType: types.StringType},
                                "string_attribute":  types.StringType,
                            },
                        },

                        "set_attribute": schema.SetAttribute{
                            Optional:    true,
                            ElementType: types.StringType,
                        },
                        "string_attribute": schema.StringAttribute{
                            Optional: true,
                        },
                    },
                },
            },

            "single_nested_attribute": schema.SingleNestedAttribute{
                Optional: true,
                Attributes: map[string]schema.Attribute{
                    "bool_attribute": schema.BoolAttribute{
                        Optional: true,
                    },
                    "float64_attribute": schema.Float64Attribute{
                        Optional: true,
                    },
                },
            },
        },
    }
}
```

> ## Blocks

Reviewer: For a followup PR, I think we should just include a quick summary here similar to the top of the blocks page, then link to that page for the rest. 👍

                            Optional:    true,
                            ElementType: types.StringType,
                        },
                    },
                    Blocks: map[string]schema.Block{
                        "set_nested_nested_block": schema.SetNestedBlock{
                            NestedObject: schema.NestedBlockObject{
                                Attributes: map[string]schema.Attribute{
                                    "bool_attribute": schema.BoolAttribute{
                                        Optional: true,
                                    },
                                },
                            },
                        },
                    },
                },
            },

            "single_nested_block": schema.SingleNestedBlock{
                Attributes: map[string]schema.Attribute{
                    "bool_attribute": schema.BoolAttribute{
                        Optional: true,
                    },
                    "float64_attribute": schema.Float64Attribute{
                        Optional: true,
                    },
                },
            },
        },
    }
}
```

> ## Custom Types

Reviewer: For a followup change, since this is a framework-defined concept and not a Terraform one, I'd suggest moving this to its own new page. 👍
